[Music]
I should tell you that when I was asked
to be here I thought to myself what well
it's Ted and these tedsters are you know
as innocent as that name sounds these
are the philanthropists and artists and
and scientists who sort of shape our
world and what could I possibly have to
say that could be distinguished enough
to justify my participation in something
like that and so I thought perhaps a
really civilized sounding British accent
might help things a bit and then I
thought no no you know I really I should
just get up there and be myself and and
just talk the way I really talk because
after all this is the great unveiling
and so I thought I'd come up here and
unveil my real voice to you although
many of you already know that I do speak
the Queen's English because I am from
Queens New York
but the theme of this session of course
is invention and while I don't have any
patents that I am aware of you will be
meeting a few of my inventions today and
so I suppose it's fair to say that I am
interested in the invention of self
ourselves we're all born into certain
circumstances with particular physical
traits unique developmental experiences
geographical and historical contexts but
then what you know to what extent do we
self construct do we self invent how do
we self identify and how mutable is that
identity like what if one could be
anyone at any time
well my characters like the ones in my
shows allow me to play with the spaces
between those questions and so I've
brought a couple of them with me and
well they're very excited what I should
tell you what I should tell you is that
they've each prepared their own little
TED Talks so feel free to think of this
as Sarah University okay okay well
wonderful good evening everybody thank
you so very much
having me here today thank you very much
my name is Lauren Levine and oh my
there's so many of you hi sweetheart
okay anyway I am here because of the
young girl Sarah Jones she's a very nice
young black girl well you know she calls
herself black she's really more like a
caramel color if you look at him but
anyway she has me here because she puts
me in her show what she calls her
one-woman show and you know what that
means of course that means she takes the
credit and then makes us come out here
and do all the work but I don't mind I
frankly I'm failing just to be here with
all the luminaries you have attending
something like this you know really it's
amazing not only of course the
scientists and all the wonderful Giants
of the industries but the celebrities
there were so many celebrities running
around you I saw her Glenn Close I saw
her early I loved her and she was
getting a yogurt in the Google cafe
isn't that adorable and so many others
you see they're just wonderful it's
lovely to know they're concerned you
know and oh I saw a Goldie Hawn Oh
Goldie Hawn I love oh she's wonderful
yeah and you know she's only half Jewish
you know that about her yeah but even so
a wonderful challenge and I you know
when I saw her it's such a wonderful
feeling yeah she's lovely but anyway I
should have started by saying just how
lucky I feel it's such an eye-opening
experience to be here you're also
responsible for this world that we live
in today you know I couldn't have
dreamed of such a thing as a young girl
and you know you've all made these
advancements happen and in such a short
time you're all so young you know your
parents must be very proud but I also
appreciate the diversity that you have
here I noticed it's very multicultural
you know when you're standing up here
you can see all the different people
it's like a rainbow
you know it's okay to say rainbow yeah I
just I can't keep up with whether you
can say you know the different things
what are you allowed to say or not say I
just I don't want to offend anybody you
know but anyway you know oh yeah I just
think that to be here with all of you
accomplished young people literally some
of you the architects building our
brighter future
you know it's heartening to me even
though quite frankly some of your
presentations are horrifying absolutely
horrifying it's true it's true you know
between the environmental degradation
and the the crashing of the world
markets you're talking of course we know
it's all because of the the the all the
well I don't know how else to say it is
how to say it my way the Ganesha
stickler coming from the governments and
the you know the bankers and the Wall
Street you know it anyway the point is
I'm happy somebody has practical ideas
to get us out of this mess so I salute
each of you and your stellar
achievements thank you for all that you
do and congratulations on you know being
such big mockers that you've become
Ted Maestas so happy continued success
congratulations Mazel Tov
hi thank you everybody I'm sorry this is
such a wonderful opportunity and
everything to be here right now my name
is Nevada and I'm just I'm so thrilled
to be part of like your TED conference
that you're doing and everything like
that and um I I am Dominican American
I'm actually you could say I grew up in
the capital of Dominican Republic
otherwise known as Washington Heights in
New York City but I don't know if
there's any other Dominican people here
but I know that um one in three case he
was here yesterday and I think he's
Mexican so that's honestly that's close
enough for me right now
so um um I just I'm sorry well just
trying not to be nervous because this is
a very wonderful experience for me and
everything you know I'm not used to
doing uh public speaking and whenever I
get nervous I start to talk really fast
nobody can understand nothing I'm saying
which is very frustrating for me as you
can imagine I usually have to just I try
to calm down and take a deep breath but
then on top of that you know Sarah Jones
told me we only have 18 minutes so then
I'm like should I be nervous you know
because maybe it's better and then like
I'm just trying not to panic and freak
out so he's like take a deep breath okay
sorry so um anyway what I was trying to
say is that I really love Ted like I
love everything about this it's amazing
like it I can't get over this right now
and like people would not believe
seriously where I'm from that even
exists you know like even I mean I love
like the name then Ted I mean I know
it's a real person and everything but
I'm just saying that like you know it's
I think it's very cool how it's like
it's also an acronym you know which is
like it was very like high concept and
everything like that I like that and I'm
like actually like I can relate to the
whole like you know acronym thing and
everything because actually I'm a
sophomore in college right now um and at
my school actually I was part of
co-founding an organization which is
like a leadership thing you know like
you guys you were really like it and
everything and the organization is
called the bomb and um the bomb not like
what you guys can build and everything
it's like the bomb it means like
Dominican is an acronym Dominican
American benevolent organization for
mothers and babies so and I know seeing
like the name is like a little bit long
but with the war on terror and
everything the Dean of Student
Activities has asked us to stop saying
the bomb use the whole thing so nobody
will get the wrong idea whatever so
basically like the BA I mean what
dominican-american benevolent
organization for mothers and babies does
is basically we try to advocate for
students who show a lot of academic
promise and who also happens to be
mothers like me I am a working mother
and I also go to school full-time and um
you know it's like it's so important to
have like role models out there I mean I
know sometimes our lifestyles are very
different whatever but like even at my
job like I just got promoted right now
it's very exciting actually for me
because I'm the junior assistant to the
associate director under the senior vice
president for business development
that's my two title so but I think
whether you own your own company or
you're just starting out like me like
something like this is so vital for
people to just continue expanding their
minds and learning and if everybody like
all people really have access to that it
would be a very different world out
there as I know you know so I just I
think all people we need that but I mean
especially I look at people like me you
know like I mean Latinos we're about to
be the majority in like two weeks so
like like we deserve just as much to be
part of the exchange of ideas as
everybody else so I am very happy that
you're you know doing this kind of thing
making the talks available online that's
very good I love that and I just I love
you guys I love Ted and if you don't
mind
privately now in the future I'm going to
think of Ted as an acronym for
Technology Entertainment and Dominicans
thank you very much
uh so that was noreda and just like
Lorraine and everybody else your meeting
today these are folks who are based on
real people from my real life friends
neighbors family members I come from a
multicultural family in fact the older
lady or just Schmidt very very loosely
based on a great-aunt on my mother's
side it's a long story believe me but on
top of my family background my parents
also sent me to the United Nations
School where I encountered a plethora of
new characters including Alexander okay
well you know it was big enough French
sure that I am taking with her you know
and it was Madame booth so you know she
was very city comedy so it was like you
know she was there in the class you know
she was kind of typically French you
know she was very chic but also she was
very filled with ennui you know and she
would be the hell you know kind of
talking with the class you know talking
about the you know the existential
futility of life you know and we were
only 11 years old so it was not
appropriate but um want a cup of joe
excellent Diana yes I took German for
three years naturally aboard and it was
quite the experience because I was the
only black girl in the class even in the
UN school although you know it was
wonderful the teacher has stopped he
never discriminated never he always
always treated each of us you know
equally unbearably during the class so
so there were the teachers and then
there were my friends classmates from
everywhere many of whom are still dear
friends to this day and they've inspired
many characters as well for example a
friend of mine well I just wanted to
quickly say good evening my name is
praveen Mondrian thank you very much for
this opportunity of course Ted the
reputation precedes itself all over the
world but you know I am originally from
India and I I wanted to start by telling
you that once Erik Jones told me that we
will
having the opportunity to come here to
Ted in California originally I was very
pleased and frankly relieved because you
know I am a human rights advocate and
usually my work it takes me to
Washington DC and there I must attend
these meetings mingling with some
tiresome politicians trying to make me
feel comfortable by telling how often
they are eating the curry in Georgetown
so you can just imagine right so but I'm
thrilled to to be joining all of you
here I wish we had more time together
but that's for another time okay great
and sadly I don't think we'll have time
for you to meet everybody I brought but
like I'm trying to behave myself it's my
first time here mm-hmm but I do want to
introduce you to a couple of folks you
may recognize if you saw
bridge-and-tunnel well thank you good
evening my name is Pauline Ning and
first I want to tell you but I'm of
course I am a member of the Chinese
community in New York but when Sarah
Jones asked me to please come to Ted I
said well you know first I don't know
that you know before two years ago you
will not find me in front of audience of
people much less like this because I did
not like to give speeches because I feel
as an immigrant I do not have good
English skills for speaking apart then I
decided just like a Governor Arnold
Schwarzenegger I try anyway my daughter
my daughter wrote as she told me always
start your speech with humor but my
background I want to tell you a story
only briefly my husband and I we brought
our son and daughter here in 1980s to
have the freedom we cannot have in China
at that time and we try to teach our
kids to be proud of their tradition
about this very hard you know as an
immigrant I will speak Chinese to them
and they will always answer me back in
English they love rock music and pop
culture American culture but when they
got older and when the time comes for
them to start think about getting
married that's when we expect them to
realize a little bit more their own
culture but that's where we had some
problems my son he says he is not ready
to get married and he has a sweetheart
but she is American woman
not Chinese it's not that it's bad but I
tell him what's wrong with a Chinese
woman but I think he will change his
mind soon so then I decide instead I
will concentrate on my daughter the the
daughter's marriage is very special to
the mom but first she's said she's not
interested she only wants to spend time
with her friends and then at college
it's like she never came home and she
doesn't want me to come and visit so I
said what's wrong in this picture so I
accused my daughter to have like a
secret boyfriend but she told me mum you
don't have to worry about boys because I
don't like them and I said yes man can
be difficult but all women have to get
used to that
she said no mom I mean I don't like boys
I like girls
I am the spear so I always teach my kids
to respect American ideas but I told my
daughter this is one exception that she
is not gay she's just confused by this
American problem but she told me mom
it's not American she said she is in
love in love with a nice Chinese girl so
these are the words I am waiting to hear
but for my son not my daughter but at
first I did not know what to do now but
then over time I have come to understand
that this this is who she is so even
though sometimes it's still hard I will
share with you that it helps me to
realize society is small tolerant are
usually because of places like this
because of ideas like this and people
like you with the open mind so I think
maybe
Ted you impact people's lives in the
waist maybe even you don't realize so
for my daughter's sake I thank you for
your ideas worth spreading thank you
she's yet
good evening my name is happy better
hell and I would like to first of all
thank Sarah Jones for putting all of the
pressure on the only Arab who she
brought with her to be last today I am
originally from Jordan and I teach
comparative literature at Queens College
it is not Harvard but I feel a bit like
fish out of water but I am very proud of
my students and I see that a few of them
did make it here to the conference so
you will get the extra credit I promised
you but while I know that I may not look
like the typical Ted s then as you would
say I do like to make the point that we
in a global society we are never as
different as the appearances may suggest
so if you will indulge me I will share
quickly with you a better verse which I
memorized as a young girl 16 years of
age so back in the ancient times our
joke at only anak Battaglini I'm sick
edik Alenia hat edik I am sick doc
Coleman al maseeh doctor flaw I'll be
sure enough Farhana which other hobby
hobby which other hobby which other
hobby hobby and this roughly translates
please let me hold your hand oh I want
to hold your hand I want to hold your
hand and when I touch you I feel happy
inside it's such a feeling that my love
I can't hide I can't hide I can't hide
well so ok but please please so but
please if it is sounding familiar it is
because I was at the same time and my
life listening to the Beatles on the
radio Ramallah they were very popular so
all of that is to say that
I like to believe that for every word
intended to render us deaf to one
another there is always a lyric
connecting ears and hearts across the
continents in rhyme and I pray that this
is the way that we will self invent in
time that's all shukran thank you very
much for the opportunity okay great
thank you all very much she was lovely
thank you for having me
thank you very very much I love you well
you you have to let me say this
I just thank you I I want to thank Chris
and Jacqueline and just everyone for
having me here it's been a long time
coming and I feel like I'm home and I
know I've performed for some of your
companies or some of you have seen me
elsewhere but this is honestly one of
the best audiences I've ever experienced
the whole thing is amazing and so don't
you all go reinventing yourselves
anytime soon
[Applause]
[Music]